---
title: "First Post - Introductions and Goal Setting"
categories:
  - Meta
  
toc: true
toc_label: "Contents"
toc_icon: "bookmark"
---

Hello! Since this is the first post, I will write a little bit about myself and my goals for this blog. 

## Introduction
I first got into Machine Learning (ML) when I was finishing my Bachelor's at the University of Lisbon. I started working on poetry generation with Recurrent Neural Networks (RNNs), mostly following the "recent" work on chinese poetry generation [[1, 2](#references)] but applied to portuguese poetry. As with most ML projects, the core part of the project was collecting and cleaning data. But still, this was a great introduction to Natural Language Processing (NLP) and Deep Learning (DL) in general.

TODO: in depth discussion of papers, models, tools



I followed this up studying Artificial Intelligence for my Master's. For my thesis, I worked on optimization for Architecture and Structural Engineering. We did use some ML models as surrogate models for the expensive functions we were optimizing, so that

TODO: in depth discussion of thesis

I joined Microsoft Reseach Cambridge for their inaugural AI Residency program. I worked on brain tumour segmentation with CNNs (TODO cite papers)


RSE Work

Amazon Work

## Goals for this blog
My general interests
Why I am doing this

I am starting this blog as a why to force me to write and "teach" (and learning by proxy). I found that nowadays I tend to write much less and simply read, take notes, and move on. My side projects also tend to get abandoned


Here are some initial post ideas:
- Workflow for storing papers/references, linking with Notion for tracking and note taking, and linking with Xodo for annotating.
- Discussion on latest Vision-Language models, i.e. CLIP, DALL-E, and Flamingo


## References
[1] Xingxing Zhang and Mirella Lapata. [_Chinese Poetry Generation with Recurrent Neural Networks_](https://aclanthology.org/D14-1074/). EMNLP 2014.

[2] Rui Yan. [_i, Poet: Automatic Poetry Composition through Recurrent Neural Networks with Iterative Polishing Schema_](https://www.ijcai.org/Abstract/16/319). IJCAI 2016.
